# spam_filtering_thesis

Spamming, i.e. sending unwanted messages to many users, has been encouraged by the development of digital communications and the technocentric shift in people’s lives. These conditions facilitate the sending of spam messages and also make people more exposed to them. However, the research community has developed systems for detecting spam messages to protect users and the seamless nature of communication carried out through digital media. The English literature is rich in methods that can be used to mitigate spam. On the other hand, research in other languages is quite limited. This thesis aims to extend the methods and detection systems from English to Greek. Due to the lack of available Greek data, an automatic translation from English to Greek is carried out using the Google translate service. Thus, the Greek detection filters are trained on the translated data. In particular, it considers various machine learning and natural language processing algorithms to develop the detection systems. The thesis, concludes that fine tuning BERT models, on the problem data, have the best performance in both languages. They also achieve the smallest possible difference in performance between the two languages. So, it proposes implementations based on fine tuned BERT for English and Greek BERT for Greek. In particular, it implements a Universal Filter, which combines the available data, Thematic Filters that detect specific spam categories and a Thematic Filter System to detect all categories. Finally, by comparing the performance of the English filters on the original English data and the Greek filters on the translated Greek (human and automated), the contribution of machine translation to the development of a Greek detection system is judged succesful.
